The first thing we need to do is make our digital signals,
and we do this with sampling.
The goal of digital sampling is to take
an analog continuous time signal, typically a voltage,
and to quantize it and discretize it in
time so that we can store it in a finite amount of memory.
Then we can use the magic of computers to process it.
Component that does this is called an analog to digital converter, or an ADC.
The ADC changes the analog signal in
a few fundamental ways that are important to learn about.
In our heads, it's easy to sometimes pretend we're dealing with an ideal analog signal,
but this can get us into trouble.
It's important to know more detail about how
analog signals are sampled to avoid pitfalls later on.
So an ADC encodes a range of physical values to a set of discrete values.
So in this example,
the range is from minus three volts to plus three volts,
and we're using a 4-bit ADC,
which means we have 16 discrete values with which to encode this full range.
Because this example is dramatic,
you can see the effect of the quantization noise.
Typically, ADCs have many more bits and you won't see
quantization noise because it'll be overpowered by other sources of noise.
Like in thermal energy in the system,
or electronic noise from within the sensor,
or even noise from the surroundings or
the building that you're in will contribute to what we call the noise floor.
So even when your input signal is perfectly flat like this,
you'll always see some amount of noise in the output.
If you ever see a perfectly flat line at zero in your output signal,
then your sensor's probably broken,
and this noise is additive.
So whatever incoming signal you have,
you'll see the noise floor added on top of that.
Our ADC was encoding the range from minus three volts to plus three volts.
So what happens when your signal actually varies from minus four to plus four?
Well, everything greater than three volts will get clipped to three volts,
and everything less than minus three volts will get clipped to minus three.
We call this phenomenon clipping,
or sometimes over saturation and under saturation.
Finally, it's important to remember that
digital signals are sampled periodically in time.
We often like to plot them as these continuous curves,
but maybe this is a more accurate representation
where we plot the individual points in time.
In this example, there are 30 dots in this 1 second.
So we could say that the sampling rate is 30 samples per second or 30 hertz.
Next, we'll look into some visualization techniques for our signals.